What is Cloud Computing?

Utilizing resources from a server across the internet. 
Offering infrastructure, resources and applications over the internet. 

Benefits: 
    Flexible - pay per use 
    Scalability - easy to expand our infrastructure
    Cost Effective 
    High Availability 

Cloud Platforms
    AWS*
    Azure 
    GCP 
    
What is AWS?
    Comphrensive cloud computing platform - offer a wide range of cloud computing services, 
    Infrastructure as a Service, Platform aaS, Software aaS, etc - e.g. Storage, databases, machine
    learning, computing power, etc. 

    AWS provides pay-per-use or subscription based model, making it much cheaper for new or 
    existing enterprises to expand their infrastucture. 


How do we control access to our cloud services?
    Security Groups - define inbound and outbound rules 
    IAM - Identity and Access MAnagement 


IAM: 
    This is used to control which services and users have access to your cloud resources 
    User - can define a person or an external service, typically more long-term account 
            to give access to resources 
    Roles - are given to AWS resources so that they can have temporary access to other 
            AWS resources. 

VPC: 
    Virtual Private Cloud - virtual network environment that contains a grouping of 
    your resources that are isolated from other VPCs 

    Define a range of IP address ranges, subnets, routing tables - EC2 instances, databases 
    and S3 buckets. 

    Subnet: 
        Inside of VPCs, subnets are used to divide the VPC IP address range into smaller 
        blocks. Makes it easier to manage network traffic and control access.
        Each subnet has its own range of IP address and is associated with a availability zone.

        Security - control access to resource within the VPC 
        Isolation - provides isolation between resources with the VPC 
        Routing - allows to define routing tables and network gateways.

    Private and Public Subnets - private is typically for internal AWS resources to access it.
    public is for public internet access. 

    Availability Zones: 
        Basically isolated resource centers. Each region will have multiple centers, so that
        in case of a disaster, power outages, earthquakes, floods, etc . 


S3 bucket: 
    Simple Storage Solution, it is typically used to store objects. Designed for storing and    
    retrieiving large amounts of unstructured data, e.g. files, images and vidoes. 
    We can use S3 to host static webpage. 

CloudFront: 
    Is a Content Delivery Network (CDN) - allowing you to deliver web pages, images, vidoes and other media 
    to customers with low latency and high transfer speeds. It works by caching your content in edge locations 
    (data centers that are spread out around the world), reducing the time it takes to load your content. 

EC2: 
    Elastic Cloud Compute instance - an example of infrastructre as code (IaaS). This is 
    effectiively a virtual machine that allows us to configure the OS, libraries and applications
    that we need. 

    When configuring an EC2 isntance, we can configure an AMI (Amazon Machine Image).
    This is basically a template for our cloud instance, with the OS and the libraries that
    will be included. 

ACL vs Object Ownership: 
	ACL is more granular for managing permissions on S3. An ACL is a list of access control rules that can be applied to a bucket or object. They are less flexible compared to IAM policies and bucket policies. 
	Bucket policy - bucket owner automatically owns and has full control over every bucket in the S3 bucket. 


Bucket Policy examples and breakdown: 
1. Effect : Can be “Allow” or “Deny”, indicates whether the statement allows or denies
2.Action: Lists the specific AWS service actions (e.g. s3:GetObject” or “ec2:RunInstances”)
    a. “ec2: StartInstances”
    b. “rdsDeleteDBInstance:
    c. “lambda:DeleteFunction”
    d. [
    "s3:GetObject",
    "s3:PutObject",
    "s3:DeleteObject"
    ]   
3. Resource: Specifies the AWS resources to which the actions apply - usually by their Amazon Resource Names (ARNs)
    a. “arn:aws:s3:::<bucket-name>” A specific bucket
    b. “arn:aws:s3:::<bucket-name>/*” All object in a S3 bucket
    c. "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket-name>/<object-key>" A specific object
    d. A specific RDS instance: "arn:aws:rds:region:account-id:db:db-instance-name"
    e. All RDS instances in an account: "arn:aws:rds:region:account-id:db:*"
    f. A specific EC2 instance: "arn:aws:ec2:region:account-id:instance/instance-id"
    g. All EC2 instances in an account: "arn:aws:ec2:region:account-id:instance/*"
4. Principle: Defines who the statement applies to - in s3 bucket policies, the principle is implicitly the bucket owner. 
    a. “Principle”: { “AWS”: “arn:aws:iam:<AWS account>:root”}
    b. “Principle”: { “AWS”: “arn:aws:iam:<AWS account>:user/<username>”}
    c. “Principle”: { “AWS”: “arn:aws:iam:<AWS account>:role/<rolename>”}
    d. “Principle”: { “Service”: “ec2.amazonaws.com”}

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AWS RDS: 
    AWS Relational Database System 
    It is a fully managed database service by AWS, allows to set up, manage and scale RDS in the cloud. 
    It has support for PostgreSQL, Orcale, SQL Server, and MariaDB 
    
IaaS vs PaaS vs SaaS 
    Infrastructure as a service provides access to the computing infrastrucutre, e.g. virtual machines, storage, networking, OS, etc. 
    With IaaS we get maximum control over everything. The downside to this is that we have to configure and manage 
    everything ourselves. 

    Platform as a Service, provides a higher level of abstraction. The platform that our application is going to be run on 
    is managed by AWS, so we can focus on managing the application only. 
    This makes PaaS easier to use, typically they provide a GUI to manage and configure it. The downside being we lose more 
    control over our systems. 

    Software as a Service. This is a software that is entirely managed by a platform and offered over the web, e.g. Google Drive, 
    MS 365 Online, etc . 

Serverless Computing 
    Developers can deploy their applications without having to manage anthing on the server side. This makes it easier to 
    deploy applications because we have less things to manage. 

AWS Lambda - "Backend as a Service"
    This is a service that will run our code in response to events and automatically manage all the compute resource. 
    We can write code in various programming lanugages, e.g. Node.js, Python, Java and Go. 
    We can build an API using AWS lambda and API gateway, we can easily deploy our apps without worrying about our backend -
    especially because we only pay per compute use. 

API Gateway: 
    Service provided by AWS to allow us to build REST APIs (as well as other HTTP APIs and Web Sockets).
    You can define resources, methods and integrations (other AWS services, like lambda, to be triggered).
    You can deploy the API into multiple stages (dev, test, prod), each stage being a snapshot of your API that 
        are independent from each other and can be updated and managed seperately 

AWS Cloud Watch 
    Is a monitoring tool provided by AWS to collect, and analyze metrics, logs and events from your AWS resources application. It 
    can process data from a variety of your systems, EC2, RDS and lambda functions. WE can even provide our own custom metrics
    for our applications. 


Question Bank: 
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VQkSVrOh9kq646okuQkahlALV_Xj69EoehQAzBeGThg/edit?usp=sharing